README.md, before:

# pmserver

`pmserver` is a server that listens for text commands and can send and
receive MIDI data throughPortMidi.

It is best used to send and receive sysex messages. You can send any MIDI message
you want, but it only makes sense for `pmserver` to explicitly receive sysex
messages because otherwise it won't know when to stop listening.

`pmserver` listens for commands on `stdin` and writes received sysex
messages to `stdout` (in response to a read command). Errors are written to
`stdout` prefixed by the string "# ".

A sample session:

```
$ pmserver
> help
...help message...
> list
...list of input and output devices...
> open input 1
> send 1 90 64 127    # note on
> send 1 80 64 127    # note off
> send 1 f0 42 30 68 37 0d 0 f7 # set list bank digest request
> receive 1
f0 42 30 68 38 0d 0 ...23 bytes... f7
> quit
```

# The Commands

All commands and subcommands can be abbreviated to one character.

All lists of bytes

## l[ist]

List all open input and output ports.

## o[pen] i[nput] N

Opens input port number N.

## o[pen] o[utput] N

Opens output port number N.

## s[end] @file | .file | b[ b...]

Sends either the contents of a file (@ for ASCII hex bytes, . for binary) or
bytes to the open input. Byte values `b` are in hex. Bytes can be strung
together with our without spaces between them. If a byte string is more than
one character long then all hex numbers in it must be two hex digits long.

## r[eceive]

Receives sysex from the open output and returns it as a string of ASCII hex
bytes separated by spaces.

## m[onitor]

Listens for and prints all incoming MIDI messages. This is a superset of the
`receive` command.

Type `^C` to stop monitoring. (NOTE: this will quit pmserver now. That is a
bug that I will fix ASAP.)

## x @file | .file | b[, b...]

Sends either the contents of a file (@ for ASCII hex bytes, . for binary) or
bytes to the open input, presumed to be a sysex message, and receives and
prints the reply.

## p words...

Prints out words. Useful when running a script passed in to stdin.

## q[uit]

# Limitations

Only one input and output can be open at a time.

# Example

```sh
$ ./pmserver <<EOS
o i 1
o o 3
p request for set list digest
x f0 42 30 68 37 0d 0 f7
q
EOS
```

Commit message:

prefix all command errors with '#'; update README

README.md, after:

# pmserver

`pmserver` is a server that listens for text commands and can send and
receive MIDI data throughPortMidi. It works with one input and one output
device at a time.

It is best used to send and receive sysex messages, or as a MIDI monitor.
You can send any MIDI message you want, but it only makes sense for
`pmserver` to explicitly receive sysex messages because otherwise it won't
know when to stop listening.

`pmserver` listens for commands on `stdin` and writes received sysex
messages (in response to a read command) or all message (the monitor
command) to `stdout`. Command error messages are written to `stdout`
prefixed by the string "# ".

A sample session:

```
$ pmserver
> help
...help message...
> list
...list of input and output devices...
> open input 1
> send 1 90 64 127    # note on
> send 1 80 64 127    # note off
> send 1 f0 42 30 68 37 0d 0 f7 # set list bank digest request
> receive 1
f0 42 30 68 38 0d 0 ...23 bytes... f7
> quit
```

# The Commands

All commands and subcommands can be abbreviated to one character.

All lists of bytes

## l[ist]

List all open input and output ports.

## o[pen] i[nput] N

Opens input port number N.

## o[pen] o[utput] N

Opens output port number N.

## s[end] @file | .file | b[ b...]

Sends either the contents of a file (@ for ASCII hex bytes, . for binary) or
bytes to the open input. Byte values `b` are in hex. Bytes can be strung
together with our without spaces between them. If a byte string is more than
one character long then all hex numbers in it must be two hex digits long.

## r[eceive]

Receives sysex from the open output and returns it as a string of ASCII hex
bytes separated by spaces.

## m[onitor]

Listens for and prints all incoming MIDI messages. This is a superset of the
`receive` command.

Type `^C` to stop monitoring. (NOTE: this will quit pmserver now. That is a
bug that I will fix ASAP.)

## x @file | .file | b[, b...]

Sends either the contents of a file (@ for ASCII hex bytes, . for binary) or
bytes to the open input, presumed to be a sysex message, and receives and
prints the reply.

## p words...

Prints out words. Useful when running a script passed in to stdin.

## q[uit]

# Limitations

Only one input and output can be open at a time.

# Example

```sh
$ ./pmserver <<EOS
o i 1
o o 3
p request for set list digest
x f0 42 30 68 37 0d 0 f7
q
EOS
```
